# Sample Cell Meshes for RBC3D 

We provide a sample cell mesh data to be used in RBC3D simulations.
These meshes can be used in a simulation by using the subroutine `ModIO::ImportReadRBC`.
Examples for this usage can be found in `\examples\case_diff_celltypes\` code.

## `SickleCell.dat`
This sample file is a simplified mesh of a Sickle Cell.
The cell is described as a deformed prolate spheroid.
The mesh's number of latitudinal modes, `nlat0`, is 12.

### Generating `SickleCell.dat`
The Sickle Cell is generated by inducing a prolate spheroid under a flow in the RBC3D simulation for a prolonged period of time.
The prolate spheroid cell is generated by the `ModRBC::RBC_MakeUncurvedSickleSpheroid` method.
Then, the cell undergoes flow within a no-slip cylindrical wall for 5000 timesteps with stepsize of 0.00014.
The resulting mesh is exported as `SickleCell.dat` 

## Why Import Cell Meshes?
In RBC3D, cell surfaces are parameterized by the colatitude and longitude angles of $\theta$ and $\phi$ respectively.
RBC3D requires this representation of a cell surface in order to convert cell surface to a spherical-harmonic representation.
For more information regarding the representation of cell surfaces in RBC3D, read Section #3 of ["A Spectral Boundary Integral Method for Flowing Blood Cells"](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jcp.2010.01.024) (this paper is also listed on the main `/README.md`).

Some cells (e.g. Healthy Red Blood Cell, Leukocyte) have a surface which is straightforward to describe; these cells can be created in a simulation by calling a specific subroutine such as `ModRBC::RBC_MakeBiConcave` or `ModRBC::RBC_MakeLeukocyte`.
However, the sample cells consist of mesh-data for more challenging geometries.
As a result, these meshes are generated in more elaborate methods, and then imported into the simulation.